dudders README
==============

Users
-----

Dudders is a utility for updating DNS records.

Dudders spells "DHCP Updating DNS Duly Embracing RSA SIG(0)" (with
some poetic license).  It points a domain name to a given IP address,
using the RFC2136 DNS UPDATE protocol and a SIG(0) signature.  It is
designed with embedded systems in mind.  This has several implications
for users:

 - you can't use it to do all the things DNS UPDATE can do,
 - it will error and exit rather than dealing with problems;
 - it will fit and work on your embedded device!

For a general purpose DNS UPDATE utility, use ISC's nsupdate, which is
distributed with BIND.  Other free clients with similar functionality
include ddclient, ez-ipupdate, updatedd, ipupdate, and dnssec-tools's
ifup-dyndns.

The ISC BIND 9 Administrator Reference Manual contains instructions
for configuring your zone's DNS server to support a SIG(0) update,
under the DNSSEC section.

For instructions on how to invoke the program, consult the dudders(1)
manual page which is built by configure.

License
-------

Dudders is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0, the text of
which is included in the file COPYING.

Installation
------------

A POSIX-like standard C library is expected, complete with resolver.
The BSD, uClibc, and glibc libraries should all work.

An external libarary is required by dudders for cryptography.
The following packages are supported to provide crypto libraries:
 - openssl: The OpenSSL project's libcrypto
 - gcrypt: The GnuPG spinoff crypto library libgcrypt

At runtime dudders will try to dynamically load each of these
libraries using dlopen(3), until one works.  The behaviour can be
modified slightly by calling configure with:

  --with-dlcrypto=LIST

Where LIST is a whitespace separated list containing at least one of
the packages above, specifying the order they should be tried at
runtime.  All packages in this list must be available at compile-time
and at least one at runtime.

To use the system dynamic linker instead of dlopen, call configure
with:

  --with-crypto=PACKAGE

Where PACKAGE is one of the packages above.  This is less flexible, but
more portable.

By default, the program is built with a considerable amount of
debugging information.  To make it leaner, call configure with:

  CFLAGS="-DNDEBUG -O2"

Consult the INSTALL file for additional instructions on building and
installing dudders.

Contact
-------

General discussion should take place on the mailing list:
<dudders-users@lists.sourceforge.net>
